# Exercises for Chapter7

### Exercise11
Skipped since has been done before.

### Exercise12The goal is to delete k edges so as to reduce the maximum s-t flow in G by as much as possible. In other words, you should find a set of edges F ⊆ E so that |F| = k and the maximum s-t flow in G′ = (V, E − F) is as small as possible subject to this.

Give a polynomial-time algorithm to solve this problem.

#### Answer
First observe that by removing any k edges in a graph, we reduce the capacity of any cut by at most k, and  so, the min-cut will reduce by at most k. Therefore, the max-flow will reduce by at most k. 

Now we show that one can in fact reduce the max-flow by k. To achieve this, we take a min-cut X and remove k edgs going out of it. The capacity of this cut will now become f-k, where f is the value of max-flow. There for, the min-cut becomes f-k, and so, the max-flow becomes f-k.

### Exercise13Skipped since has been done ever before.

### Exercise14Given G, X, and S, show how to decide in polynomial time whether such a set of evacuation routes exists.

#### Answer
a). Set a source s and a sink t. Connect s to each x and connect each s to t. Then run Ford-Fulkerson.

b). Transform problem from edge-capacity to node-capacity. Which has been done before. Thus skipped.

### Exercise15You want to fix Alanis’s mistake but without having to recom- pute everything from scratch. Show that it’s possible, using her “al- most correct” schedule, to decide in only O(n2) time whether there exists a feasible dinner schedule for the co-op. (If one exists, you should also output it.)
#### Answer
If one of two people is aviliable on the night dl, then assign this night to him, problem solved. 

Now we consider the situation when neither of them are available that day. Firstly we use the biparite graph desribed in answer a and build a flow network with a source and a sink. And we assign current flow to it. Each edge has the capacity as 1.  We can find that the node d\_k break the conservation condition, thus we delete one of edge. 

Firsyly we try deleting (pi,dk). And based on current flow, we build a augmented graph, and run BFS from the pi to kl. If path find, then it exist, otherwise we continue.

Secondly we try deleting (pj, dk). Do the same thing as above. Then run BFS from pj to kl. If path find, then it exist, otherwise we cannot find.

If the path is found, based on the current flow-network, we will be able to find an valid assignment. 