# Exercises for Chapter7

### Exercise6
Give an algorithm to decide if a given floor plan is ergonomic. The running time should be polynomial in m and n. You may assume that you have a subroutine with O(1) running time that takes two line segments as input and decides whether or not they cross in the plane.
#### Answer
Build the following bipartite G = (V, E), V is partitioned into sets X and Y, with a node x\_{i} in X representing switch i, and a node y\_{i} representing fixture j. (x\_{i}, y\_{i}) is an edge in E if and only if the line segment from xi to yi does not intersect any of the m walls in the floor plan. Thus, whether (x\_{i}, y\_{i}) in E can be determined initially by m segment-intersection test. So G can be buildt in time O(n^2 * m)

Then try to find if G has perfect matching in O(C * m) = O(n * n^2) = O(n^3)

### Exercise7
Your goal is to design a polynomial-time algorithm for the following problem. Given the positions of a set of clients and a set of base stations, as well as the range and load parameters, decide whether every client can be connected simultaneously to a base station, subject to the range and load conditions in the previous paragraph.

#### Answer
We build the following network. There is a node vi for each client and wj for each base station jm and an edge (vi, wj) of capacity 1 if client i is within range of base station j. We then connect a super source s to each of the client nodes by an edge of capacity of 1. ANd we connect each of the base station nodes to a super-link by an edge of capacity L.

We claim that there is a feasible way to connect all clients if and only if there is an s-t flow of value n. If there is a feasible connection, then we send one unit of flow from s to t along each of paths s, vi, wj, t, where client i is conected to base station j. This soes not violate the capacity conditions, in particular on the edges (wj,t), due to the load constraits. Conversely, if there is a flow of value n, then there is one with integer values. We connect client i to base station j if the edge (vi, wj) carries one unit of flow, and we observe that the capacity condition ensures that no base station is overloaded.

The runnning is the time required to solve a max-flow problem on a graph with O(n+k) nodes and O(n*k) edges.

### Exercise8
Let sO, sA, sB, and sAB denote the supply in whole units of the different blood types on hand. Assume that the hospital knows the projected demand for each blood type dO, dA, dB, and dAB for the coming week. Give a polynomial-time algorithm to evaluate if the blood on hand would suffice for the projected need.

#### Answer
a). Supply nodes adjacent to the source, demand nodes adjacent to the sink. Edge has infinity capacity while (s, u) has capacity of supply and (v, t) has the capacity of demand.

If the sink are all saturated in the resulting max-flow, there is sufficient supply.

b). The demand of O and A is 45 + 42 = 87, while the supply can provide at most 50 + 36 = 86. 

### Exercise9
Give a polynomial-time algorithm that takes the given information about the people’s locations and determines whether this is possible.

#### Answer
Exactly the same as former questions. Here only discuss on time complexity.

The running time is the time it solve a max-flow problem on a graph with O(n+k) nodes and O(n*k) edges.

### Exercise10
Skipped since has been done before
