# Exercises for Chapter6

### Exercise6
Give an efficient algorithm to find a partition of a set of words W into valid lines, so that the sum of the squares of the slacks of all lines (including the last line) is minimized.

#### Answer
Let w_j, w_j+1, ..., w_n be the word in the last line, then we have:

	opt(n) = min_{1 <= j <= n} {s^2_{j,n} + opt(j - 1)}

### Exercise7
In the solved exercise, we showed how to find the optimal pair of days i and j in time O(n log n). But, in fact, it’s possible to do better than this. Show how to find the optimal numbers i and j in time O(n).

#### Answer

	opt(n) = max(0, opt(n-1) + p(i) - min)

### Exercise8

Skipped since has been done before.

### Exercise9
Give an efficient algorithm that takes values for x1, x2, . . . , xn and s1, s2, . . . , sn and returns the total number of terabytes processed by an optimal solution.

#### Answer
a). [101, 101, 101, 101, 101; 100, 4, 3, 2, 1].
Have to reboot on day 2 and day4.

b). Three ways:

##### 1. My version
Denote j as the last day before i to reboot the machine.

	opt(i) = max_{0<=j<=i} {opt{j-1} + sum_{k=j+1}^{i}{min{x(k), s(k-j)}}}

##### 2. Second version
Denote opt(i,j) as the maximum amount of work that can be done starting from day i through day n, given the last reboot occurred j days piror, which means the system is rebooted on the day i - j.

Each day i has two option:

1. Reboot, opt(i, j) = opt(i+1 , 1)
2. Continue, opt(i,j) = min{x\_i, s\_i} + opt(i+1, j+1)

On the last day, there is no advantage gained in rebooting and hence opt(n, j) = min{x\_i, s\_i}

##### 3. Third version
Let opt(i, j) to be the maximum number of work can be processed from day 1 to day i, given last reboot is j days before:
	
	opt(i,j) = opt(i-1, j-1) + min(x\_i, s_j)
	opt(i,0) = max_{k=1}^{i-1}{opt(i-1, k)}
	opt(0,j) = 0

### Exercise10
Give an efficient algorithm that takes values for a1, a2, . . . , an and b1, b2, . . . , bn and returns the value of an optimal plan.

#### Answer
a). [10, 1, 1, 100, 1; 5, 1, 20, 20, 20]
With algorithm given, we will get 10 + 20 + 20 + 20 = 70. While the optimal is 10 + 1 + 1 + 100 + 1 = 113.

b).
##### Version1
	opt(i, A) = a_i + max{opt(i-1, A), opt(i-2, B)}
	opt(i, B) = b_i + max{opt(i-1, B), opt(i-2, A)}
##### Version2
	opt(i) = max_{0=<k<i}{opt(k-1) + max{sum on A, sum on B}}
##### Wrong version
	Most of or all single variable form of sub-problem is wrong.